# WEBVS

**Word embedding-based virtual screening (WEBVS)** is a computational screening strategy that classifies bioactive compounds and plants in semantic space generated by word embedding algorithm. This repository stores the data and R scripts to generate results and figures for the corresponding preprint[^1].

## Installation and Dependencies

The R scripts need following packages: word2vec, e1071.

Please make sure to install all dependencies prior to running the code. 
The code presented here was implemented and tested in R ver.4.2.2.

## Usage
1. Download this repository.
2. Uncompress (using bunzip2) "data.tar.bz2" file to create "data" folder which holds two files, "plant_sen" and "label".
    - "plant_sen" : pre-processed literature data
    - "label" : label data for compounds and plants appeard in the "plant_sen" file. The descriptions of the labels are as follows:
        - "1": antimicrobial compounds
        - "4": antimicrobial plant genera listed in a systematic review[^2].
        - "3": other plant genera
3. Set your R working directory to the root directory of the project.
4. Run a R script "src/run_WEBVS.R"
    - The script performs 5-fold cross-validation and plots an enrichment curve for WEBVS.

## References
[^1]: Yabuuchi H et al. Virtual screening of antimicrobial plant extracts by machine-learning classification of chemical compounds in semantic space. [Preprint]. 2023 [cited 2023 Mar 25]. doi: [10.1101/2023.03.23.533934](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.03.23.533934v1).
[^2]: Chassagne F et al. A systematic review of plants with antibacterial activities: A taxonomic and phylogenetic perspective. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Jan 8;11:586548. doi: [10.3389/fphar.2020.586548](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2020.586548).
